---
layout: default
title: About
permalink: /about/
---

# About Me

Welcome! My name is Daniel Garcia-Briseno and occaisionally provide
development services under my LLC "Appsolutely Wonderful LLC." I have
been working with software since roughly 2014 when I got my first
internship in college. I first worked for Northern Arizona University
writing some web applications. Then worked at Intel for 5 years
working on 3DXPoint memory. And now I work on a solar visualization
tool over at [helioviewer.org](https://helioviewer.org). I never
posted much since Intel discourages their employees from posting
anything about their work on social media, but now that I work on an
open source project I hope to be sharing much more.

## Work History / Resume
- *Northern Arizona University* **Web Developer** - My first software
job. I am pretty sure I got this internship thanks to showing them my
horrible clone of flappy bird. While here I worked on a variety of web
apps made for managing student relations. A tool for keeping notes on
contact information for students along with previous communications
we've had with them. A tool for helping students find which courses
they've taken at community colleges will transfer. A login screen, and
probably more. We used bootstrap v3, angularjs, telerik, ASP.Net, MVC,
jQuery. All of which have come a long way since then.
- *Intel* **Firmware Engineer** My first job out of college I was
picked up by Intel. I worked on the "revolutionary" [3D-XPoint
Memory](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/architecture-and-technology/intel-micron-3d-xpoint-webcast.html)
This was good fun for a time since I was very interested in embedded
systems coming out of college. But after working on nearly 4
generations of the product, the work was getting stale.
- *NASA Helio Science Division* **Senior Software Engineer** Now I am
working under a NASA Contract on an open source project. We collect
images from the VSO and other solar telescopes and pull them together
into a visualization tool at
[helioviewer.org](https://helioviewer.org).
Here I do a lot more than just software. I work full-stack by managing
the webserver, database, backend, a little bit of front end,
documentation, and I manage the blog a little bit. So far I'm enjoying
this position since I have more freedom in how I work.

## Hobbies and Interests
I am still trying to figure out what I like. I enjoy making music with
FL Studio and my piano. You can find some of my stuff
[here](https://soundcloud.app.goo.gl/4aX9x) on soundcloud.

I am also a computer geek and lately have been enjoying solving some
capture the flag challenges over at
[overthewire](https://overthewire.org/wargames). You can check out my
scores on [We Chall](https://www.wechall.net/profile/dangarbri).

I'm always looking for a new project to work on, so if you'd like my
help on anything feel free to reach out to me! I have a contact form I
check sometimes on my main site
[https://appsolutelywonderful.com](https://appsolutelywonderful.com). 