---
layout: default
title:  "GitHub Pages!"
date:   2022-03-05 02:50:00 -0000
categories: jekyll
---

# This Website!

I think this site itself is suitable as the first item in the
workshop's portfolio. I went through a surprising amount of
hassle setting this site up. I thought GitHub Pages was supposed to
make it easy, but it really wasn't (though maybe that was my own fault).
I had problems with getting my theme to work and problems setting up Jekyll!

So while this site may not be that impressive on its own, just know
I went through some trouble. Here's some tips in case you want
to set up your own.

## Quick Guide
Pro Tip: if your mac doesn't have XCode because your mac had no space
and you chose to delete it and then things like brew and gem stopped
working for you so you couldn't install Jekyll the easy way, I've
got you covered.

### Docker
Docker can handle it for you. Go get [Docker](https://www.docker.com/).
Then check out [this page](https://github.com/envygeeks/jekyll-docker/blob/master/README.md)
for instructions on using Jekyll within docker.
You can create a new Jekyll project with this docker command:
{% highlight bash %}
export JEKYLL_VERSION=3.8
docker run --rm \
  --volume="$PWD:/srv/jekyll" \
  -it jekyll/jekyll:$JEKYLL_VERSION \
  jekyll new --skip-bundle .
{% endhighlight %}

### Config
Then in your Gemfile, make sure you comment out `gem "jekyll"`
and uncomment the `gem "github-pages"`, and also you need to go to
[this page](https://pages.github.com/versions/) and then update
the line to have the correct version. For me this looks like
`gem "github-pages", "~> 225", group: :jekyll_plugins`

### Setting the Theme
Now GitHub has this neat theme picker in the settings! Does it work?
**No!** 

Well it didn't for me, GitHub updates your `_config.yml` and sets
`theme: the-theme-you-select` and that doesn't work at all. I just
ended up with a blank white page. And after lots of googling I found
that you need to add `remote_theme: your-selected-theme` and add
`- jekyll-remote-theme` to the plugins section.

For me this looks like 
{% highlight yaml %}
remote_theme: pages-themes/architect@v0.2.0
plugins:
  - jekyll-feed
  - jekyll-remote-theme
{% endhighlight %}

## Conclusion
At this point I finally had a template to start working
on this site. And I hope this helps someone setting up their site.
But thanks to the amount of effort this took, I decided
it would be a good project to start with in this portfolio.