---
layout: default
title: The Best C/C++ Unit Test Framework
date: 2022-08-14 00:00:00 -0000
categories: Tool
description: An SDL2 based drawing library
type: Tool
---

I discovered the best unit test framework for C/C++ projects.

I recently started a new graphics project based on
SDL2 called [Mini Draw](https://github.com/dangarbri/mini-draw/)

This being a C/C++ project, I needed a test framework for
testing some of the non-graphics related code like Cubic Bezier
curves, Sprite properties, and other data and manipulation functions
that could be tested without running an SDL window.

When you search for unit test frameworks you get blasted with
so many test frameworks, each with their own pros and cons.
This makes it a whole process for finding and evaluating each one,
which I started to do when I found I needed a test framework.

After some frustration of being overwhelmed with all the options,
and not being particularly fond of the last C unit testing framework
I worked with (Unity, no not the game engine), I discovered that
the GNU build system that I was already using has a basic unit
test framework built in, and after figuring out how to use it
I have determined that this is the #1 best unit test framework
of them all.

## Why is it the best, you ask?

1. *No extra setup.* - When using the gnu build system, you already have the
                       test framework setup.
2. *No learning curve.* - The framework is the simplest framework possible, so simple
                          that if you've ever written a hello world program, you already
                          know how to use the framework.
3. *Scalable* - This test framework is scalable. You can write as many or few tests as you need
                and your tests will remain organized and it's easy to process test results.

## What is the framework?

The GNU Build System's Automake comes with a command `make check` which runs
the test driver. The test driver will search for any tests you specify, execute them,
and create log files with the results for each test. When a test program fails,
it flags a test failure.

## How do you write a test?

Each test program is just a plain C/C++ program with a `main` function. No
header libraries, no bloated test framework binaries, no excess bloat. Just
purely functional test code.

When your test returns a non-zero exit code, that is flagged as a test failure.
So something like `return 1` from main or `exit(1)` signals a test failure. This
also means you can use `assert.h` to say `assert(expression)` which will also
result in flagging a test failure. What to test frameworks provide? They provide
ways to signal failures and make assertions. Which is already built into the language.

Logging messages takes nothing more than your typical `std::cout << message` or `printf`
These logs that you print will get saved to a log file dedicated to your test. Just like
writing any other command line program.

To write a test suite, simply define multiple functions that test different parts of the code,
and then execute these test functions inside `main()`.

Nearly all the features provided by unit test frameworks are already baked into
C/C++, so finding a "framework" that is actually no framework was a great discovery,
and makes writing tests as easy as writing application code.

Mocking function calls. Since each test is its own independent program, you can
define your own stub code for existing classes. `include #someheader.h` and define
your own test stub in `stub_someheader.cpp`

## The Cons

Just like any other framework, there are cons. While code mocking is possible, it does
mean you would need to basically maintain a production and stub version of the same code.

But I do think the simplicity of the framework means that you can focus more on your
code than bending to a test framework.

